Title: Create your own wallet using MetaMask for crypto transactions.
Objective: Understand and explore the working of Blockchain technology and its applications.
Course Outcome:
CO6:Interpret the basic concepts in Blockchain technology and its application.
Description:
MetaMask is a cryptocurrency wallet used to interact with the Ethereum Blockchain. It 
can be accessed through an app or through a browser extension.MetaMask is a popular 
cryptocurrency wallet known for its ease of use, availability on both desktops and mobile 
devices, the ability to buy, send, and receive cryptocurrency from within the wallet, and collect 
non-fungible tokens (NFTs) across two block chains. While experienced crypto users will 
appreciate the simplicity and fast transactions, those new in the space are at a higher risk of 
losing their tokens from lost secret phrases, malicious websites, and other cryptocurrency scams
Similarly, you’ll need a crypto wallet to transact with a Blockchain.
A wallet is your personal key to interact with the cryptographic world. It powers you to buy, sell 
or transfer assets on the Blockchain.
And MetaMask is a wallet for the most diverse Blockchain in existence–Ethereum. It’s your 
gateway to its DeFi ecosystem, non-fungible tokens (NFTs), ERC-20 tokens, and practically–
everything Ethereum.
It’s available as an app for iOS and Android. In addition, you can use this as an extension with a 
few web browsers: Chrome, Firefox, Brave, and Edge.
Let’s take a look at some of the prominent features of this wallet:
Ease of use
Starting with MetaMask is easy, quick, and anonymous. You don’t even need an email 
address. Just set up a password and remember (and store) the secret recovery phrase, and you’re 
done.
Security
Your information is encrypted in your browser that nobody has access to. In the event of 
a lost password, you have the 12-word secret recovery phase (also called a seed phrase) for 
recovery. Notably, it’s essential to keep the seed phrase safe, as even MetaMask has no 
information about it. Once lost, it can’t be retrieved.
Built-In Crypto Store
If you’re wondering, no, you can’t buy Bitcoin with MetaMask. It only supports Ether 
and other Ether-related tokens, including the famous ERC-20 tokens. Cryptocurrencies 
(excluding Ether) on Ethereum are built as ERC-20 tokens.
Backup and Restore
MetaMask stores your information locally. So, in case you switch browsers or machines, 
you can restore your MetaMask wallet with your secret recovery phrase.
Community Support
As of August 2021, MetaMask was home to 10 million monthly active users around the 
world. It’s simple and intuitive user interface keeps pushing these numbers with a recorded 
1800% increase from July 2020.
Conclusively, try MetaMask if hot wallets are your pick. Let’s begin with the installation 
before moving to its use cases. Further sections entail the illustration for Chrome web browser 
and Android mobile platform.
Step 1: Click on the “Create a wallet”.
Step 2: Create a password for your wallet. This password is to be entered every time the 
browser is launched and wants to use MetaMask. A new password needs to be created if 
chrome is uninstalled or if there is a switching of browsers. In that case, go through the Import
Wallet button. This is because MetaMask stores the keys in the browser. Agree to Terms of
Use.
Step 3:Click on the dark area which says
phrase.
Step 4: This is the most important step. Back up your secret phrase properly. Do not store your 
secret phrase on your computer. Please read everything on this screen until you understand it 
completely before proceeding. The secret phrase is the only way to acces
forget your password. Once done click the
Step 5:
Securely store the seed phrase for your wallet
Click on “Click here to reveal secret words” to show the seed phrase.
MetaMask requires that you store your seed phrase in 
your funds should your device crash or your browser reset. We recommend you write it down. 
The most common method is to write your 12
in a place where only you have access.
you recover your wallet and your funds will be lost forever.
Never share your seed phrase or your private key to anyone or any site, unless you want them to 
have full control over your funds.
Click on the dark area which says Click here to reveal secret words to get your secret 
: This is the most important step. Back up your secret phrase properly. Do not store your 
secret phrase on your computer. Please read everything on this screen until you understand it 
completely before proceeding. The secret phrase is the only way to access your wallet if you 
forget your password. Once done click the Next button.
Securely store the seed phrase for your wallet
Click on “Click here to reveal secret words” to show the seed phrase.
MetaMask requires that you store your seed phrase in a safe place. It is the only way to recover 
your funds should your device crash or your browser reset. We recommend you write it down. 
The most common method is to write your 12-word phrase on a piece of paper and store it safely 
have access. Note: if you lose your seed phrase, MetaMask can’t help 
you recover your wallet and your funds will be lost forever.
Never share your seed phrase or your private key to anyone or any site, unless you want them to 
nds.
to get your secret 
: This is the most important step. Back up your secret phrase properly. Do not store your 
secret phrase on your computer. Please read everything on this screen until you understand it 
s your wallet if you 
Securely store the seed phrase for your wallet
a safe place. It is the only way to recover 
your funds should your device crash or your browser reset. We recommend you write it down. 
word phrase on a piece of paper and store it safely 
Note: if you lose your seed phrase, MetaMask can’t help 
Never share your seed phrase or your private key to anyone or any site, unless you want them to 
Step 6: Click the Confirm button. Please follow the tips mentioned.
Step 7: One can see the balance and copy the address of the account by clicking on 
the Account 1 area.
Conclusion: Hence,wehavestudiedto create a wallet using MetaMask.